---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Questionnaires

A questionnaire is an important piece of testing, especially for a simulator experiment, as our main variable that keeps changing is the human aspect. As the human factor is the main variable, we want to see what factors vary from person to person and to measure qualitative factors such as feelings and opinions to the fixed variables of the experiment. This is why a questionnaire is an important piece of testing in simulator studies, as it is a way to measure these variables.  With this, we can get some objectivity for the experiment from the subjects themselves. Questionnaires will need to take place at different stages of the experiment. These are broken up into four types of questionnaires pre-experiment questionnaire, simulator sickness questionnaire, during experiment questionnaire, and after-experiment questionnaire. All of which have an important part to the experiment.

## Pre-experiment Questionnaire

The pre-experiment questionnaire is the start of the experiment, where typically you can get some basic screening information. This can be good, especially if you are looking for specific people and want to make sure only specific people actually take part in the experiment, such as only people with no experience in bicycling. People who do have experience are then disqualified to take place in the experiment. Typically, you can also ask some other background information about the user at this point, but some scientists find that background information should be taken at the end as they have already taken part in the survey and experiment and are more willing to finish the survey, but because the experiment might hinge on this background information and that you want willing participant to participate, it is important to have these questions at the beginning. Common questions should include age, gender, fitness level, bicycling experience, education, type of bicycle riding they do, etc. It is recommended that the questionnaires be digitally done, so that the data is stored securely, but is also legible in the end. It is also important to give identifiers to each participant, so that their responses can be identified with their test results. These identifiers should not identify the specific person in any form other than to match their questionnaire responses with their simulator data results. We recommend generating ID numbers or  IDs with random characters (e.g. 123456 or 1A2BC3) and giving them to the participants before the experiment, so that they remain anonymous, when the data is analyzed.  

## Simulator Sickness Questionnaire

As already discussed in the previous chapter on simulator training, simulator is a serious concern while conducting an experiment. In hopes of tracking and recording the level of simulator sickness throughout the test, it is important to conduct a questionnaire to measure simulator sickness in subjects. This can be done either by using the SSQ, which takes a look at many variables, or the FMS, which looks at only one variable. We recommend the FMS for its practicality and ease of use. This should be used in incremental times throughout the experiment. One should be taken before the experiments start on a scale of 0 to 20 of how sick they feel. Then once the experiment has started this should be asked at a maximum of every 5 minutes to measure the level of sickness. It can be asked more frequently if, there is a major concern of increased simulator sickness. Simulator sickness can develop rapidly in participants, and participants can easily go over the maximum threshold of being sick. The maximum threshold by participants should be at a maximum of 15. This can be lowered if there are some concerns of it developing too quickly and wanting to stop the experiment before symptoms develop too much. The questionnaire should be conducted verbally with the test personnel. The results should be recorded so that these measurements can be analyzed later. 

## During Experiment Questionnaire

During the experiment, it may be important to ask participants on other factors such as their current experience with a certain variable such as a close call. Asking participants right after the occurrence of the variable could provide better results, as the occurrence has just happened. Waiting for the results may change the results entirely, as the participant may have forgotten their feelings or their thoughts on the occurrence. These questions should be conducted verbally and should be very simple, as you want to keep any distractions to the participant at a minimum, while they are still actively using the simulator.  

## After-experiment Questionnaire

This is the last questionnaire which will be asked of participants. This is where you will ask them on the experience of the simulator and the experiment. These will include their qualitative feelings with anything that would like to be measure such as how real was the simulator, what could be improved, how they felt during the experiment in that situation, etc. These are questions that may have been not asked during the experiment, but now only after the experiment has been done. This will be done digitally gain so that the data can be stored securely and that it is once again legible and needs no transformation from paper to digital media. 
