---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Simulator Training

In this chapter, we will discuss simulation training and why it is important to take into consideration, while doing your experiments. So why is training necessary for your simulation? It is necessary for simulation for a few reasons, the main reason being virtual sickness and for them to get use to the controls of the simulator, although this should be fairly intuitive if they have any cycling experience at all.  Virtual sickness is a common phenomenon which happens in many virtual environments with users.  The effects of virtual sickness include dizziness, queasiness, sweating, eye strain, general discomfort, headache, fatigue, drowsiness, and disorientation. All of these symptoms are unpleasant for subjects and can lead to your experiment ending prematurely.

## Virtual Sickness

Virtual sickness is a phenomenon that isn't fully understood and what the main cause of the sickness are still unclear, although it is common occurrence in simulation studies and experiments. The symptoms can vary greatly from user to user and the effects of virtual sickness can be severe for some users while other users are left unaffected. As stated before, these symptoms can lead to ending the experiment earlier, which leads to incomplete results. Although virtual sickness is unavoidable, and that there is a high chance of it occurring, there are steps to help reduce its oncoming on subjects. One step that can reduce such sickness is to let users get use to the simulator by doing training. It has been recorded that training helps reduce the chance of getting sick. The training times vary depending on the test and the visual method being used, but it is recommended, especially when using head mounted virtual reality displays, that users have at least 15 minutes of training with the system before the test. This training has been proven to reduce the on setting of virtual sickness. Other thing which have shown signs of reducing virtual sickness can be found in the paper by Rangelova and Andre.

Even though there are these methods to reduce the on set of simulator sickness, it does not mean it will not happen. Thus, it is important during the experiment to conduct what is called a virtual sickness questionnaire throughout. This questionnaire will be asked after completion of tasks to measure the level of sickness felt by participants. If participants reach a certain threshold during the experiment, the experiment will be immediately concluded. This is because they are at high risk of becoming sick and could quickly turn worse, if they are not removed from the simulation immediately. The most common questionnaire that is used in simulator studies is the Simulation Sickness Questionnaire (SSQ) developed for testing flight simulators. More information can be found in the original research article by Kennedy.

Although the SSQ is the standard and is predominantly used it lacks refinement, in the sense that it cannot be easily asked, while the experiment is being done. Another testing method which has been validated to strongly correlate with the SSQ is the Fast Motion sickness Scale (FMS). This scale is one question and can be asked fairly easily to participants. The results are quite reliable and easy to measure. The scale is on a 0 to 20 point scale and participants can be asked in time certain time periods what their level of sickness is at. Once participants have reached a certain threshold of 15 they will be removed from the simulator. This is to make sure that simulator sickness stays mild and does not become severe during the experiment. Please remove the participant from the experiment and let them rest. Simulator sickness typically last about 15 minutes. 

## Familiarization with Controls

As stated earlier, it is important for participants to be familiar with controls even though this is a bicycle, but it is still important for them to have a chance to play around with user controls while testing. Thus while subject test the controls it should be important to explain, which controls do what, how they function. This may be clear to the subject, but to some this may not and could be a very strange set up, which they typically use. It is recommended to give the user about 5 minutes to familiarize themselves with the simulator. 
